-: Welcome back.
In this section we are going to implement
network load balancer with external DNS
using Kubernetes service.
So as part of that we are going to add additional annotation
to our Kubernetes service manifest.
So all these things we have implemented till previous demo.
So now we are going to add external DNS host name
related annotation to our Kubernetes service.
So what happens at this point?
So whenever you deploy your Kubernetes service
with this annotation added,
so we already deploy the external DNS related pod
on our AKS cluster whenever we are implementing
the ALB ingress related use cases.
So this external DNS pod
will be watching this (indistinct) API server
for any ingress R service resources
which contains external DNS host name annotation.
If it finds, then automatically it is going to go ahead
and then pick that respect to annotation
and create our update
or delete the DNS recording AWS route 53.
So once the DNS record is added,
so we can access our application with HTTP or HTTPS
using the DNS name, whatever we have registered.
Example, NLB EXT DNS dot stack simplify dot com.
So now at this point already
our SSL certificate we have created is
star dot stack simplify dot com.
So this NLB EXT DNS dot stack simplify dot com,
whenever you access, this time you should not any,
get any SSL certificate pop-up error what we have got
in our previous PLS demo.
So now let's see the same network design here, right?
So we are going to add the external DNS
and when we deploy this network load balancer related
Kubernetes service manifest,
so it is going to add the DNS in the Amazon route 53
and whenever we access we will be able to access both
via HTPP, HTTPS and the requests
go to our respective network load balancer
and to our respective pod in the worker nodes
via node ports.
And this is the annotation we are going to add,
external DNS dot all four dot Kubernetes dot IO slash
host name and we'll define the DNS name here,
something like NLB DNS 1, 0, 1 dot stack simplify dot com.
So let's go back to our GitHub repository
and enter into the section 19 ELB network load balancer
with LBC and inside that 19, 0, 3 LBC and LB external DNS.
And here we'll go and then verify
whether this respective entry is present
in the kube manifest.
So let's go to Visual Studio Code
and we are entering the section 19, 0, 3 LBC NLB
external DNS and inside that, zero, one NGINX app three
is going to be same as previous demos.
So we'll go to zero, two, LBC NLB load balancer service,
right and you can see external DNS related record
is added here right?
And you have the port 80 and 4, 4, 3 listeners,
so that you will be able to access your application
with port 80 and also with 4, 4, 3.
So now let's come back to our terminal here
and enter into the section 19, 0, 3, LBC NLB external DNS
and verify our kube manifest
and then say kubectl, apply hyphen F kube manifest
and let's wait for it to get created.
So we can see here app three NGINX deployment
and EXT DNS LBC network LBS created.
So if you see here the name also,
as per the demo usually we change it
in the metadata section, right?
So EXT DNS LBC network LB
and same we have mentioned for the load balancer name also,
here the same thing, so now let's come back here
and verify the ports, services and if you want
you can also verify the controller port locks.
But now we'll come here, kubectl and get pods.
Our app three NGINX should be running right
and before deploying this kube manifest,
you need to always ensure that,
so whether you have the external DNS port running, right.
So before deploying only you need to check
because you are, you added the external DNS related host
and annotation in your service.
So we can see it's already running.
So obviously you can do this deployment, right?
So it's already running here.
So now let's come back here and we have verified the pods
and we'll also verify the services
and the service should be created for us
EXT DNS LBC network LB
and you can see that DNS name for the same thing.
Another important thing, you need to verify easier
external DNS logs.
So this is the command to verify your external DNS pod logs.
Either you can say kubectl, get pods
and you can also say kubectl logs hyphen F
and your external DNS pod logs, you can verify this way also
or you can directly give this command and then verify.
So let's wait for the logs to roll
and we'll get the final log
wherein whether it has created the NLB DNS 1, 0, 1
in our route 53 or not, it is going to show us.
So we can see here the desired change,
it created NLB DNS 1, 0, 1 in our route 53 service.
So let's go here
and start with first the route 53 service, right?
And our DNS should be added here,
so go to hosted zones and go to www.stacksimplify.com
and in www.stacksimplify.com NLB DNS 1, 0, 1 is added, good.
So now we'll also go to our load balancer here, right?
And our load balancer EXT DNS LBC network LB
is currently provisioning.
So port 80 listener, you have Port 4, 4, 3 listener you have
and you'll also see the target groups.
Two target groups for two listeners
and let's see if they are healthy.
So they are in the registration state.
So let's wait for the load balancer to become active.
Let's go back to target groups and refresh
and they are still registering
so let's wait for them to be healthy.
After that we can go ahead and then access the stuff.
So in meantime we can do the NS lookup, test.
So let's come back here
and say NS lookup NLB DNS 1, 0, 1 stack simplify dot com.
So it is resolving to two IP addresses for us
and this should be same as the NLB DNS name.
So let me refresh, this seems to, one should be healthy.
Let's come back here and this is the NLB DNS, right?
So that custom DNS and this DNS should resolve
to the same IPs and you can see both are same, good.
So now let's wait for the load balancer related
target groups to be healthy.
So both are healthy, let's also verify the second one
and both are healthy here also.
So now let's go here and access with the URL
HTTP and also HTTPS.
So this is the HTTP one and HTTPS
also should not throw any SSL pop-up, right?
You can see the lock symbol here.
This is non-secure, which is HTTP
and this is secure and it doesn't throw any SSL pop-up,
because the domain matches star dot stack simplify dot com
off over SSL certificate matches here.
So now go to connection is secure, certificate is valid
and star dot stack simplify dot com right?
So this completes the external DNS demo
for network load balancer.
So we'll go here and clean up the stuff kubectl,
delete hyphen F, kube manifest.
So this should delete our app three NGINX deployment
and EXT DNS LBC network LB.
And let's come back here and verify always
whether your load balancer successfully deleted or not.
And if you want you can also verify your DNS record,
so whether it is deleted or not.
So we can go here first and take the logs, right?
So let's come back here
and this is the command for external DNS logs
and let's wait for the logs to display
whether it has deleted or not.
So we can see here delete NLB DNS 1, 0, 1 dot
stack simplify dot com.
So if you go here to www.stacksimplify.com.
So you should find nothing related to NLB DNS 1, 0, 1.
I'll see you in the next lecture with another NLB demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.